in Philadelphia in 1961 Elijah price is
born with type-1 osteogenesis imperfecta
a rare disease that renders one's bones
extremely fragile and prone to fracture
Elijah who grows up to become a comic
book art dealer develops a theory based
on the comics he has read during as many
hospital stays that if he represents
extreme human frailty there must be
someone unbreakable at the opposite
extreme in the present day another
Philadelphia man security guard David
Dunn is also searching for meaning in
his life he had given up a promising
football career during his college days
to marry Audrey after they were involved
in a car accident
now however their marriage is dissolving
to the distress of their young son
Joseph as he returns home from a job
interview in New York City David's train
the east rail 177 crashes killing the
other 131 passengers he is the only
survivor sustaining no injuries at the
crash victims memorial service he finds
a card on his car's windshield with the
logo of Elijah's art gallery limited
edition printed on it with a message on
the back of the card asking if David has
ever been ill David and Joseph meet with
Elijah who proposes to David that he is
the kind of person after whom comic book
superheroes are modeled and repeatedly
pursues the issue with David and Audrey
trying to learn whether or not David has
ever been ill or injured although Elijah
unsettles him David begins testing
himself while lifting weights with
Joseph watching he bench presses about
350 pounds well above what he could do
before
Joseph begins to idolize his father and
believe that he is a superhero although
David still maintains that he is just an
ordinary man
David challenges Elijah's theory with an
incident from his childhood when he
almost drowned
Elijah suggests that the incident
highlights the common trope whereby
superheros often have a weakness he
contends that David's weakness might be
water it is easier for him to drown or
be choked than regular people while
surveying the stored wreckage of the
train crash that he survived david
recalls the car accident that ended his
football career remembering that he was
unharmed and ripped a door off the car
in order to save Audrey David used the
accident as an excuse to quit football
because Audrey did not like the violence
of the sport under Elijah's influence
David realizes that what he thought was
just a natural instinct for picking out
dangerous people during security checks
is actually a form of extrasensory
perception now consciously honing this
ability David discovers that when he
comes into touch contact with other
people he is able to glimpse criminal
acts they have committed had Elijah's
suggestion David stands in the middle of
a crowd in Philadelphia's 30th Street
Station as various people bump into him
he senses the crimes they perpetrated
such as theft assault and rape and finds
one he can act on a sadistic janitor who
invaded the family home killed the
father and is now holding the wife and
their two children captive David follows
the janitor to the victim's house frees
the children and finds their mother but
the janitor ambushes him and pushes him
off a balcony into a swimming pool
David nearly drowns since he cannot swim
but the children rescue him he then
attacks the janitor from behind and
strangles him to death while he remains
uninjured
unfortunately he discovers the mother is
also dead that night he and Audrey
reconcile the following morning he
secretly shows a newspaper article on
the anonymous heroic act featuring a
sketch of David in the hooded rain
poncho he wore while confronting the
janitor to Joseph who recognizes the
hero as his father and promises to keep
his secret
David attends an exhibition at
limited-edition and meets Elijah's
mother who explains the difference
between villains who fight heroes with
physical strength versus those who use
their intelligence
Elijah brings David to the back room of
his studio extends his hand and asks
David to shake it upon doing so David
sees visions of Elijah orchestrating
several terrorist disasters including
David's recent train accident causing
hundreds of deaths
David is horrified but Elijah insists
the deaths were justified as a means to
find him calling himself mr. glass but
nicknamed children had used to taunt him
with when he was growing up he explains
that he now realizes his own purpose in
life to be the villain - David's hero
David walks away in horror and disgust
while Elijah taunts him and it is
revealed that David eventually reported
Elijah's actions to the police with the
result being Elijah convicted of murder
and terrorism and committed to an
institution the criminally insane
you